---
layout: post
category: Embedded Systems
tag: Digital Signal Processing on STM32F4
---

# Preface

Welcome to my very first blog post series about **digital signal processing on STM32 based MCUs**. Here, you will 
find discussions on various topics along with some projects to ~~master~~, let's be honest, _at least_ try to master some aspects of embedded systems. Also do not forget that I am still an electronics engineering student, not a coding guru with +25 years of coding experience. Nonetheless, I'm eager to contribute and learn alongside you. While there are some resources available online, many of them are geared towards experienced professionals and assume a high level of technical knowledge. This is why I wrote this series!

Shall we begin? As stated at the root of this site: These posts does not aim to explain everything in crystal detail. This requires **hundreds of hours**, and I don't have that luxury. The posts will be a fast summary of my journey. Instead, expect quick summaries of my journey, including the challenges I faced and the solutions I discovered. 

Feel free to [reach out][about_me] with questions!


## A Quick Checklist Before We Begin  
Here are the requirements you should meet:

1. [x] Basic Knowledge on C
2. [x] STM32 MCU
3. [x] Some Jumpers and cables (add sensors and soldering skills for extra adventure)
4. [x] Proficiency in Python, MATLAB[^1] or a simple scripting language to analyze data on PC-side as well as
   automating things
5. [x] `USB to TTL` or namely `USB to UART` cable. (Chinese knockoff will do)
6. [x] A basic grasp of **digital signal processing**
7. [x] An IDE or a favorite text editor: [suggestion](https://github.com/MSPaintIDE/MSPaintIDE)
8. [x] A favorite operating system would be beneficial: [suggestion](https://templeos.org/)
9. [ ] Courage and patience (be ready to read lots of technical documentation)

&nbsp;

I will be using [STM32F407](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f407vg.html). Feel free to 
use any STM32 board you like, but this board has some good DSP and FPU capabilities at a reasonable price. _Nucleo boards_ are also excellent options.

Hope we will make it to the end. Best of luck, for **all of us**! Because we will need it in this project series.



[about_me]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll

[^1] Well, MATLAB is, basically, a giant calculator with lots of good packages ready to use, but it can get messy as projects grow. Whenever the project gets bigger be ready to face some spaghetti code. I :heart: Python